**Project Proposal: Lemmings REVENGE!**

Author: Sean Greene

I. **Objective**

This program is a game written in Java with a SWING GUI interface. The
game is a take on the original game ["]{dir="rtl"}Lemmings" published by
Psygnosis for the Amiga system in 1991. The objective of the game is to
advance a set number of characters, defined by each level, from the
level entrance to the level exit. The characters are autonomous,
following a set of programmed behaviors (moving from right to left
horizontally, changing direction on collision with an obstacle). The
player can optionally assign a set of ["]{dir="rtl"}skills" to each
character, which enable that character to alter the level[']{dir="rtl"}s
environment or effect the behavior of other characters. The user must
strategize the selection, assignment, and timing of these skills to
overcome the various level obstacles and clear a path for the remaining
characters to advance to the exit and fulfill the level requirement.

II\. **Motivation**

This program is a demonstration of using Java and Swing for basic game
design. The program will include a number of Swing GUI components to
create the game window, menus, and dialogs for instructions, hints, and
level selection. It will push the limits of Swing components by creating
custom renderings, event handling, collision detection, and autonomous
character animation. The user interacts with the autonomous characters
through mouse listener events.

III\. **User Interface**

User will interact with the GUI through mouse clicks. The user clicks on
one of the characters, which displays that character[']{dir="rtl"}s
current stats in a side panel. Clicking on a skill after selecting the
character assigns that skill to the character. A count displaying the
number of characters successfully through the exit vs characters
remaining vs characters required for the level is displayed on a panel
in the top right of the frame.

IV\. **Basic Design and Methods**

The game will follow a Model-View-Controller architecture.

Models include:

Character classes defining the characters

Skills classes and Skills interface for defining skills

Level class which includes the current score, countdown timer, Obstacles

View includes:

GamePanel class for displaying the level, characters, environment

Menu class for displaying the score, timers, and menus.

Controller includes:

LevelController class:

Receives mouseClick events and updates the Character models.

Contains a Timer object which calls the
LevelController.actionPerformed() that updates the game state.

V. **Classes and high-level methods**

Level class: Model containing the game state.

ArrayList\<Character\>: For referencing the characters on screen.

Int\[\]\[\] map: a 2d array representing the level. Assigning 1 =
isGround, 0 = air, 3 is a solid object, which will invoke an
onCollision().

Game clock, score, progress toward goal.

LevelController class: Updates the GamePanel views and the models
(Character model, Level model). Constructor would need to include the
Level model and the GamePanel view. Includes a Timer object for calling
actionPerformed and refreshing view every x number of frames.

addMouseListener(MouseAdapter): for detecting which character in array
is clicked and updating that character. Displays the selected
Character's stats on the scoreboard panel.

actionPerformed(): invoked by a Timer object, this method will update
the game with new character positions and changes to the level's
environment. Calls repaint();

updateGame(): updates character positions and changes to obstacles,
scoreboard.

isGround(int char_y_pos, int char_x_pos): Boolean method for determining
if a character is on the ground. Returns true if the character's
Rectangle x, y coordinates cross ground.

onCollision(int char_y_pos, int char_x_pos): Boolean. Returns true if a
character's Rectangle x, y coordinates cross an obstacle.

LevelView class: The main JPanel that renders the level, environment,
and characters. Includes an ActionListener for detecting Timer events,
and a mouseListener for determining which character was selected.

enum of SKILLS

createLayout(): handles the graphics components.

paintComponent(): renders the characters and obstacles on the game
panel.

Character class: An abstract class that defines a basic Character. It
oversees tracking the position of a character on the screen and setting
the character[']{dir="rtl"}s direction.

update(): updates the character's position. It will also include a loop
for a very basic animation of the character.

draw(Graphics g): draws the basic character. Will include a g.drawImage
for the character images.

toggle(): Toggles a Boolean instance variable for determining direction
of character movement.

getBounds(): draws a rectangle around the character, to be used with
mouse events.

onCollision(): A method for determining collision events with obstacles.

abstract assignSkill(Skill skill): Method assigns the selected skill to
the clicked character.

Obstacles class: Abstract class for defining obstacles. Calls the
characters onCollision(String obstacle) method when it detects a
collision.

Lemming class: Extends the Character class. It implements the methods in
the character class.

Overrides update for lemming images

Interface Skill: single method interface for defining a skill.

useSkill(Character c)

Builder class: implements Skill.

Overrides useSkill(Character c): codes actions for building a bridge
object. Will detect when this character encounters a gap and will create
a bridge of 1 unit long.

Digger class: implements Skill.

Overrides useSkill(Character c): codes actions for removing a single
brick unit from the board

Blaster class: implements Skill.

Overrides useSkill(Character c): codes actions for destroying obstacles.
Will detect when this character encounters an obstacle and remove it
from the board.

Blocker class: implements Skill.

Overrides useSkill(Character c): codes actions for blocking other
players, effectively making this character an Obstacle.
